LAST MINUTES OF POLITICAL
BRINKMANSHIP IN CONGRESS TO
AVOID A SHUT DOWN OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, THE POLITICAL
FIRESTORM OVER ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER NETANYAHU'S BIG SPEECH
BEFORE CONGRESS.
THEN, ART AS A CASUALTY OF WAR,
ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS DESTROY
PRICELESS ANTIQUITIES IN IRAQ.
PLUS:
TACKLING OBESITY AS AMERICANS
AGE AND DISABILITIES SURGE; HOW
DIET AND EXERCISE AFFECT QUALITY
OF LIFE.
>> WE SAW THE POPULATION GET
HEAVIER AND CHRONIC DISEASES
START TO RISE -- HYPERTENSION,
STROKE, DIABETES -- AND IF WE
CONTINUED, OUR ENTIRE COMMUNITY
WOULD BE CRIPPLED BASED ON
CHRONIC DISEASES AND ILLNESSES.
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S FRIDY,A
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ARE HERE TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: UNCERTAINTY REIGNS
AT THE U.S. CAPITOL THIS
EVENING, IN THE FUNDING FIGHT
OVER HOMELAND SECURITY.
HOUSE REPUBLICANS FAILED LATE
TODAY TO PASS A TEMPORARY BILL,
AS CONSERVATIVES REBELLED.
>> WE CAN'T LET THE DEPARTMENT
STOP WORKING.
>> Woodruff: THE DAY-LONG DRAMA
UNFOLDED AS A MIDNIGHT DEADLINE
NEARED FOR THE FEDERAL
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
TO RUN OUT OF MONEY.
ON THE HOUSE SIDE: SENIOR
REPUBLICANS, INCLUDING
KENTUCKY'S HAL ROGERS, PUSHED A
THREE-WEEK FUNDING MEASURE.
>> CONSEQUENTLY, WE'RE PUTTING
BEFORE YOU A BILL TO TEMPORARILY
FINANCE THEM WHILE WE GO TO
CONFERENCE ON THE MAIN YEAR END
FINANCING OF THE DEPARTMENT,
THAT'S WHAT THIS IS ALL ABOUT.
>> Woodruff: A NUMBER OF
REPUBLICANS WERE STILL DEMANDING
THAT THE "MAIN, YEAR-END"
FUNDING MEASURE OVERTURN THE
PRESIDENT'S DIRECTIVES ON
IMMIGRATION.
BUT DEMOCRATS IN THE SENATE HAVE
BLOCKED THAT EFFORT, AND THEIR
HOUSE COUNTERPARTS PRESSED THE
G.O.P. TODAY TO ACCEPT REALITY.
>> MISTER SPEAKER, LET YOUR
REPUBLICANS GO!
LET THEM COME TO THE FLOOR AND
VOTE ON A CLEAN BILL!
WE COULD PASS IT BEFORE THIS
AFTERNOON.
THAT BILL WOULD BE IN THE WHITE
HOUSE TONIGHT, AND WE COULD GO
HOME, SLEEPING, KNOWING THAT
THIS NATION'S SECURITY IS IN
GOOD HANDS.
>> Woodruff: AS THE DAY WENT ON,
HOUSE REPUBLICAN LEADERS HAD TO
CALL A LENGTHY RECESS TO ROUND
UP VOTES.
THEY FINALLY SUCCEEDED LATE THIS
THE JOINT RESOLUTION IS NOT
PASSED.
>> Woodruff: BUT G.O.P.
LEADERS INSISTED THAT'S NOT THE
END OF IT.
>> MEMBERS ARE ADVISED
ADDITIONAL VOTES ARE NOW
POSSIBLE LATER THIS EVENING AND
MAYBE THIS WEEKEND, AND I YIELD
BACK.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, SENATE
REPUBLICAN LEADERS HAVE GIVEN UP
ON INCLUDING IMMIGRATION IN A
FUNDING BILL.
INSTEAD, THE SENATE TODAY
APPROVED A "CLEAN" BILL THAT
FUNDS THE HOMELAND SECURITY
DEPARTMENT THROUGH SEPTEMBER.
>> Woodruff: THE WHITE HOUSE
SIGNALED EARLIER THAT IF A SHORT
TERM FUNDING DOES FINALLY PASS,
THE PRESIDENT WOULD SIGN IT.
A SMALL TOWN IN SOUTH CENTRAL
MISSOURI WAS IN SHOCK TODAY,
AFTER A NIGHT OF KILLING LEFT
EIGHT PEOPLE DEAD.
IT HAPPENED IN TYRONE, NEAR THE
ARKANSAS BORDER.
POLICE SAID A GUNMAN KILLED
SEVEN PEOPLE THEN TOOK HIS OWN
LIFE.
THE VICTIMS WERE FOUND IN FOUR
SEPARATE HOMES.
POLICE IDENTIFIED THE SHOOTER AS
JOSEPH JESSE ALDRIDGE AND SAID
FOUR OF THE VICTIMS WERE HIS
COUSINS.
IT WAS UNCLEAR WHAT HIS MOTIVE
MIGHT HAVE BEEN.
IN MEXICO, POLICE HAVE CAPTURED
ONE OF THAT COUNTRY'S MOST-
WANTED DRUG LORDS.
SERVANDO GOMEZ IS A FORMER
TEACHER WHO CAME TO BE KNOWN AS
"LA TUTA".
HE RAN THE "KNIGHTS TEMPLAR"
CARTEL THAT ONCE DOMINATED PART
OF WESTERN MEXICO, BUT HE'D BEEN
A FUGITIVE FOR A YEAR.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S WORD THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP HAS RUN INTO
A BUDGET SHORTFALL.
A GLOBAL TASK FORCE REPORTED
TODAY THAT FALLING OIL PRICES
HAVE HELPED CUT THE GROUP'S
REVENUES.
THE REPORT ALSO CITED U.S.-LED
AIR STRIKES, AND AT THE
PENTAGON, REAR ADMIRAL JOHN
KIRBY CONFIRMED IT.
>> THEY STILL HAVE RESOURCES AT
THEIR DISPOSAL BUT WE KNOW THAT
THEY'RE FEELING THE PINCH
BECAUSE THEY AREN'T ABLE TO GRAB
NEW GROUND AND THEREFORE AREN'T
ABLE TO ROB NEW BANKS AND STEAL
MORE CASH.
>> Woodruff: THE TASK FORCE
REPORT DID CALL FOR TARGETING
THE MILITANTS' ONLINE
FUNDRAISING.
THE FOUR-MONTH EXTENSION OF
GREECE'S FINANCIAL BAILOUT TOOK
A MAJOR STEP FORWARD TODAY.
GERMANY'S PARLIAMENT VOTED
OVERWHELMINGLY TO BACK THE
EXTENSION.
THE FINANCE MINISTER TOLD
LAWMAKERS THAT IT'S IN
EVERYONE'S BEST INTEREST.
>> WE'RE IN A SITUATION THAT
FINANCIAL MARKET TRUST THEM
AGAIN AND GRIESE CAN ACT WITHOUT
ANY SUPPORT ON ITS OWN, CALLED
COMPETITIVENESS.
FOR GREECE THERE'S A LONGER ROAD
THAN FOR ANY OTHER EUROPEAN
COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: GERMANY HAS PUSHED
GREECE TO ADHERE TO SPENDING
CUTS AND OTHER AUSTERITY
MEASURES.
A LEADING OPPOSITION FIGURE WAS
SHOT AND KILLED TODAY.
THE INTERIOR MINISTRY SAYS IT
WAS A DRIVE-BY OUTSIDE THE
KREMLIN.
HE WAS A PROMINENT CRITIC OF
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN.
ON WALL STREET, STOCKS LOST
GROUND AFTER FOURTH-QUARTER
GROWTH CAME IN WEAKER THAN FIRST
ESTIMATED.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 82 POINTS TO CLOSE NEAR
18,100.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 SLIPPED SIX,
BUT FOR THE MONTH THE DOW AND
THE S-AND-P GAINED MORE THAN 5%.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 7%.
>> Woodruff: TWO MEN WHO HAD
PROFOUND BUT VERY DIFFERENT
EFFECTS ON AMERICAN LIFE HAVE
DIED.
THEY WERE "FATHER TED" AND
"MISTER SPOCK," NOTRE DAME'S
REVEREND THEODORE HESBURGH AND
"STAR TREK'S" LEONARD NIMOY.
>> Woodruff: HE WAS BELOVED BY
GENERATIONS OF "STAR TREK" FANS.
LEONARD NIMOY'S JOURNEY TO SCI-
FI IMMORTALITY BEGAN IN 1966, AS
MR. SPOCK, THE STRICTLY LOGICAL
SCIENCE OFFICER.
HE WAS FEATURED ALONGSIDE
WILLIAM SHATNER'S CAPTAIN KIRK,
FOR THREE SEASONS, AND LATER,
IN A SERIES OF MOVIES.
>> THE NEEDS OF THE MANY
OUTWEIGH THE NEEDS OF THE FEW.
OR THE ONE
I HAVE BEEN AND ALWAYS SHALL BE
YOUR FRIEND.
NIMOY'S CAREER ALSO INCLUDED
DIRECTING AND WRITING.
BUT HE WAS FOREVER LINKED TO THE
HALF-VULCAN-HALF HUMAN SPOCK,
AND HIS FAMOUS SALUTE.
>> YOUR FAMILY, YOURRIEN FDS,
WHATEVER, AND ESPECIALLY TO YOU:
LIVE LONG AND PROSPER.
>> Woodruff: ON TWITTER LAST
YEAR, NIMOY REVEALED HE'D BEEN
DIAGNOSED WITH CHRONIC,
OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE.
HE DIED TODAY AT HIS LOS ANGELES
HOME, AT THE AGE OF 83.
HOURS EARLIER, THE REVEREND
THEODORE HESBURGH PASSED AWAY IN
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
"FATHER TED," AS HE WAS WIDELY
KNOWN, BECAME NOTRE DAME'S
PRESIDENT IN 1952 AND OVER 35
YEARS, HELPED RESHAPE CATHOLIC
EDUCATION.
THE SCHOOL'S CURRENT PRESIDENT,
THE REVEREND JOHN JENKINS, SAID
IN A STATEMENT TODAY:
>> Woodruff: ALONG THE WAY,
HESBURGH ADVISED, AND SOMETIMES
CLASHED, WITH PRESIDENTS, AS
WELL AS POPES.
HE ALSO PRESSED FOR PEACE IN THE
MIDDLE EAST AND CHAMPIONED CIVIL
RIGHTS AT HOME AND HUMAN RITSGH
AROUND THE GLOBE.
HE KEPT PRESSING THAT AGENDA
EVEN AS HE RETIRED IN 1987.
>> WE DON'T KNOW WHERE WE'RE
GOING FROM HERE AND WE DON'T
KNOW WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO, BUT
I CAN GUARANTEE YOU THERE ARE A
LOT OF BATTLES YET TO BE WON FOR
JUSTICE.
>> Woodruff: HESBURGH WAS
HONORED WITH THE CONGRESSIONAL
GOLD MEDAL IN 2000.
AND, THAT SAME YEAR, ON "THE
NEWSHOUR, HE SUMMED UP HIS
CAREER:
>> I NEVER THOUGHT I WAS A
PRIEST JUST TO GIVE SERMONS AND
WORK IN CHURCH, AND HEAR
CONFESSIONS AND MARRY PEOPLE,
BURY PEOPLE AND SO FORTH.
I FELT I'M PART OF A BIG LIFE
OUT THERE, AND I'VE GOT TO
CONTRIBUTE TO THAT, ONE WAY OR
THE OTHER, I HOPE FOR THE GOOD.
>> Woodruff: THE REVEREND
THEODORE HESBURGH WAS 97 YEARS
OLD.
AND IN ANOTHER PASSING OF NOTE,
EARL LLOYD, THE FIRST BLACK
PLAYER IN THE NATIONAL
BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION DIED
THURSDAY.
HE ENTERED THE LEAGUE IN 1950.
IN 1955, HE HELPED THE SYRACUSE
NATIONALS WIN THE N.B.A. TITLE.
HE WAS INDUCTED INTO THE
BASKETBALL HALL OF FAME IN 2003.
EARL LLOYD WAS 86 YEARS OLD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE CONTROVERSY BEHIND THE
ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER'S
UPCOMING ADDRESS TO CONGRESS;
WHY ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS ARE
DESTROYING ANCIENT ART IN IRAQ;
HOW OBESITY IS CHANGING THE WAY
AMERICANS AGE;
PLUS, MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS ON THE WEEK'S NEWS.
>> Woodruff: A RIFT ESCALATED
THIS WEEK BETWEEN THE WHITE
HOUSE AND ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU OVER HIS
PLANNED TO CONGRESS ON TUESDAY.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET REPORTS.
>> Warner: AS HE NEARS THE MARCH
17TH FINISH LINE IN HIS RE-
ELECTION CAMPAIGN, ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU IS
TAKING AN UNUSUAL 6,000 MILES
DETOUR SUNDAY, TO LOBBY CONGRESS
AGAINST PRESIDENT OBAMA'S DRIVE
TOWARD A NUCLEAR DEAL WITH IRAN.
HE MADE HIS FEELINGS ON THAT
CLEAR ON WEDNESDAY.
>> THE WORLD POWERS HAVE
UNDERTAKEN TO PREVENT IRAN FROM
NUCLEAR WEAPON.
BUT FROM THE AGREEMENT COMING
TOGETHER, IT APPEARS THEY HAVE
GIVEN UP ON THIS COMMITMENT.
>> Warner: SECRETARY OF STATE
KERRY RESPONDED, SAYING
NETANYAHU HAD ALSO DISPARAGED
THE LATE 2013 "INTERIM DEAL"
WITH IRAN.
>> HE CALLED IT 'THE DEAL OF THE
CENTURY FOR IRAN,' EVEN THOUGH
IT HAS CLEARLY STOPPED IRAN'S
PROGRAM.
>> Warner: WHAT INFURIATES THE
ADMINISTRATION IS NOT THE
SUBSTANCE OF NETANYAHU'S
CRITIQUE.
IT'S WHERE AND WHEN IT WILL BE
DELIVERED, HERE, BEFORE A JOINT
SESSION OF CONGRESS TUESDAY, AND
HOW THE VISIT CAME ABOUT.
>> I DID NOT CONSULT WITH THE
WHITE HOUSE.
THE CONGRESS CAN MAKE THIS
DECISION ON ITS OWN.
>> Warner: IN JANUARY,
REPUBLICAN HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN
BOEHNER ANNOUNCED HE'D INVITED
NETANYAHU TO SPEAK, WITHOUT
CONFERRING WITH THE WHITE HOUSE
OR DEMOCRATIC LEADERS.
>> I DON'T BELIEVE I'M POKING
ANYONE IN THE EYE.
THERE IS A SERIOUS THREAT THAT
EXISTS IN THE WORLD...
>> Warner: IT LATER EMERGED THAT
HE'D ORCHESTRATED THE VISIT WITH
THE ISRAELI AMBASSADOR, LONGTIME
NETANYAHU' POLITICAL ADVISER RON
DERMER.
THE ADMINISTRATION FIRED BACK,
SAYING NEITHER THE PRESIDENT NOR
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN WOULD MEET
WITH NETANYAHU SO CLOSE TO
ISRAEL'S ELECTION.
I T>>HINK IT'S INSULTING AND I
THINK THAT IT POLITICIZES
FOREIGN POLICY IN THIS COUNTRY
IN A WAY THAT IT SHOULDN'T BE
POLITICIZED.
>> Warner: INDEPENDENT VERMONT
SENATOR BERNIE SANDERS, WHO
CAUCUSES WITH DEMOCRATS, PLANS
TO BOYCOTT THE SPEECH.
HE FAULTS BOEHNER FOR PLAYING
POLITICS WITH A SENSITIVE
SECURITY ISSUE THAT DIVIDES
CONGRESS, ON HOW TO CURB IRAN'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
WHAT ABOUT PRIME MINISTER
NETANYAHU?
DID HE CROSS A LINE HERE?
>> THE ANSWER IS YES, I DON'T
THINK IT'S A GOOD IDEA FOR THE
SPEAKER TO BRING THE PRIME
MINISTER OF ISRAEL TO COME TO
THE FLOOR OF THE CONGRESS TO
TRASH THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES.
I DON'T WANT TO SEE THE UNITED
STATES CONGRESS USED AS A PROP
FOR A POLITICAL CANDIDATE.
>> Warner: ISRAELI INTELLIGENCE
MINISTER YUVAL STEINITZ
MAINTAINS NETANYAHU'S VISIT
ISDRIVEN BY THE END-OF-MARCHTO L
FRAMEWORK IN THE IRAN TALKS, NOT
BY ISRAEL'S ELECTION CALENDAR.
>> SO THIS IS THE LAST
OPPORTUNITY FOR PRIME MINISTER
NETANYAHU TO EXPLAIN WHY ISRAEL
IS SO DISTURBED, TO CONVINCE
CONGRESS, THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA, MAYBE OTHER WORLD
POWERS, NOT TO SIGN A BAD DEAL
WITH IRAN.
THIS IS NOT ABOUT NEUTRALIZING
THE IRANIAN NUCLEAR THREAT.
IT'S JUST POSTPONING, DELAYING,
RESTRAINING.
THIS IS REALLY ABOUT THE FUTURE
OF THE WORLD, BUT ALSO ABOUT THE
EXISTENCE OF ISRAEL, THE JEWISH
STATE.
>> Warner: BESIDES, HE SAYS, HOW
COULD NETAYAHU TURN DOWN AN
INVITATION FROM THE SPEAKER OF
THE HOUSE?
>> IF THE PRIME MINISTER WERE
INVITED BY CONGRESS, I DON'T
KNOW OF ANY WORLD LEADER WHO
WOULD REFUSE SUCH AN INVITATION.
>> I THINK WHAT A WORLD LEADER
WOULD HAVE DONE, AND I SUSPECT
MOST WOULD HAVE DONE, IS GOTTEN
ON THE PHONE AND SAID,
"PRESIDENT OBAMA, GUESS WHAT?
SPEAKER BOEHNER INVITED ME.
HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THAT?"
>> Warner: THE U.S. AND FIVE
OTHER WORLD POWERS SEEK AN
AGREEMENT TO PUT VERIFIABLE
LIMITS ON IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM
FOR A DECADE OR MORE, TO ENSURE
THAT IRAN COULDN'T QUICKLY
PRODUCE ENOUGH FUEL FOR A BOMB.
PRESIDENT OBAMA ALSO SEES A DEAL
AS A WAY TO AVOID MILITARY
ACTION BY THE U.S. OR ISRAEL
AGAINST IRAN'S NUCLEAR SITES.
PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU WANTS
FAR MORE, TO HAVE IRAN'S NUCLEAR
ENRICHMENT PROGRAM DISMANTLED
ENTIRELY.
BUT THESE DIFFERENCES, THE
PRESIDENT SAID, AREN'T WHY HE
WON'T SEE NETANYAHU THIS VISIT.
>> THE U.S.-ISRAELI RELATIONSHIP
IS NOT ABOUT A PARTICULAR PARTY.
THE WAY TO PRESERVE THAT IS TO
MAKE SURE THAT IT DOESN'T GET
CLOUDED WITH WHAT COULD BE
PERCEIVED AS PARTISAN POLITICS.
>> Warner: BUT IT'S CERTAINLY
SEEN AS POLITICAL IN ISRAEL,
WHERE NETANYAHU IS RUNNING
AGAINST A CENTER-LEFT COALITION
PARTLY ON A STAND-UP-TO-
WASHINGTON MESSAGE, AS IN THIS
T.V. AD.
IN TEL AVIV'S LARGEST MARKET,
VOTERS WERE DIVIDED ON THE
ELECTION, AND ON THE TRIP.
VEGETABLE SELLER DAVID COHEN IS
NOT SOLD ON THE PRIME MINISTER
OR THE SPEECH.
>> ( translated ): HE IS GOING
FOR HIMSELF, NOT FOR ME.
HE IS GOING THERE TO WIN THE
ELECTIONS
>> Warner: LUGGAGE IMPORTER
ZTAFRIR SALOMON SAID NETANYAHU
HAS TO GO MAKE ISRAEL'S CASE.
>> BIBI TOTALLY UNDERSTANDS WHAT
HE IS DOING AND HE IS DOING IT
WITH HIS CHIN UP.
>> Warner: BUT AMERICAN-BORN
ISRAELI CARMEL GARBER IS
TROUBLED.
>> I THINK IT'S TERRIBLE,
WHETHER OR NOT NETANYAU LIKES
OBAMA OR NOT, IT'S A CRUCIAL
ALLY, AND YOU CAN'T JUST PUSH
HIM ASIDE AS IF HE'S NOT
IMPORTANT.
>> Warner: THE PERSONAL
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN MR. OBAMA
AND NETANYAHU HAS BEEN DISTANT
AND OFTEN TESTY FROM THE START,
NOTES AARON DAVID MILLER OF THE
WILSON CENTER, A FORMER MIDDLE
EAST PEACE NEGOTIATOR IN
REPUBLICAN AND DEMOCRATIC
ADMINISTRATIONS.
>> WHAT YOU DO HAVE IS PERHAPS
THE MOST-DYSFUNCTIONAL
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN AN AMERICAN
PRESIDENT AND ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER IN THE HISTORY OF THE
RELATIONSHIP.
TAMARA WITTES, A FORMER STATE
DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL IN THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, AGREES.
>> WHAT I SEE TODAY IS A
BITTERNESS, I THINK THAT IS
DIFFERENT.
THIS IS, I THINK, A MUCH DEEPER
CRISIS OF CONFIDENCE THAN I'VE
SEEN BEFORE.
>> Warner: THE TENSION AND
DISTRUST BETWEEN THE TWO EXTENDS
BEYOND THE IRAN ISSUE.
TO THE STALLED ISRAELI-
PALESTINIAN PEACE PROCESS AND
THE CONDUCT OF LAST SUMMER'S
GAZA WAR.
NOW SOME DEMOCRATS FEEL CAUGHT
IN A BIND, FORCED TO CHOOSE
BETWEEN SHOWING SUPPORT FOR THE
PRESIDENT'S TOP FOREIGN POLICY
PRIORITY, AND SHOWING SUPPORT
FOR ISRAEL.
SO FAR, THREE DEMOCRATIC
SENATORS, VERMONT'S PATRICK
LEAHY, VIRGINIA'S TIM KAINE AND
HAWAII'S BRIAN SCHATZ SAY THEY
WON'T ATTEND.
SOME 25 HOUSE MEMBERS ARE
STAYING AWAY TOO WARNING IT
COULD DAMAGE LONGSTANDING BI-
PARTISAN COOPERATION ON ISRAEL.
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER SUSAN
RICE RAISED THAT RED FLAG
TUESDAY EVENING ON CHARLIE ROSE.
>> ON BOTH SIDES THERE HAS NOW
BEEN INJECTED A DEGREE OF
PARTISANSHIP, WHICH IS NOT ONLY
UNFORTUNATE.
IT THINK IT'S DESTRUCTIVE OF THE
FABRIC OF THE RELATIONSHIP.
>> Warner: AARON MILLER CONCEDES
THE DANGERS OF PARTISAN
DIVISIONS.
BUT HE DOESN'T THINK THIS
INCIDENT WILL SHAKE THE
FUNDAMENTAL U.S.-ISRAEL
ALLIANCE.
>> UNLIKE LEHMAN BROTHERS, THIS
RELATIONSHIP IS TOO BIG TO FAIL.
AS THE REGION MELTS DOWN, A
STABLE ALLIES, WHO PRESUMABLY
SHARE AND DO SHARE AMERICAN
VALUES, GOES UP.
DURING A CRISIS, FRANKLY, IS
WHERE YOU'RE GOING TO SEE MORE
CONSENSUS RATHER THAN DIVISION
BETWEEN THE TWO SIDES.
>> Warner: BUT BROOKINGS' TAMARA
WITTES IS WORRIED THE EFFECTS
WILL LINGER AND SPILL OVER.
>> AND IF THEIR
FUNDAMENTAL RELATIONSHIP IS
ROCKY, IT'S GOING TO IMPEDE
THEIR ABILITY TO COOPERATE.
IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
LEADERS.
THE TONE PERMEATES DOWN TO
OFFICIALS AT EVERY LEVEL.
HAVE THE LAST FIVE YEARS CREATED
SOME PERMANENT DYSFUNCTION IN
THE RELATIONSHIP?
THE ONLY WAY TO ACTUALLY TEST
THAT IS TO TEST THE ALTERNATIVE,
A NEW AMECAN RIPRESIDENT AND A
NEW ISRAEL PRIME MINSTER.
FOR THE NEXT 20 MONTHS, MORE
THAN LIKELY, THIS VERY ODD
COUPLE WILL CONTINUE THIS VERY
PECULIAR DANCE.
>> Warner: A 73-YEAR-OLD
BEAUTICIAN PNINA SHERMAN IN TEL
AVIV EXPECTS TO CONTINUE TOO--
>> GIVE ME A BREAK.
OUR POSITION IS STRONG, ALSO IN
THE UNITED STATES.
HE WILL GIVE A SPEECH, HE WON'T
GIVE A SPEECH, HE DOESN'T RISK A
THING.
>> Warner: --A RISK THAT WILL
PLAY OUT IN WASHINGTON NEXT
WEEK.
I'M MARGRET WARNER FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR IN WASHINGTON.
>> Woodruff: AND MARGARET JOINS
ME NOW.
THANKS FOR THAT, MARGARET.
YOU WERE TELLING ME NOT ONLY ALL
THE OTHER DIVISIONS YOU WERE
REPORTING ON BUT THIS OPENED A
SPLIT INSIDE THE AMERICAN-JEWISH
COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: IT HAS IN THE
POLITICALLY ACTIVE
ORGANIZATIONS.
THE STRENGTH OF THE ISRAEL LOBBY
HABITS BIPARTISAN NATURE.
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS
DISAGREE ON DOMESTIC ISSUES BUT
ARE ROCK SOLID IN SUPPORT FOR
ISRAEL.
APEC WAS CAUGHT FLAT FOOTED.
SOME DEMOCRATIC MEMBERS SAID WE
CAN'T BE PART OF THE THE PLOY TO
UNDERCUT OBAMA AND HELP
NETANYAHU WIN, BUT WHILE APEC
STEPPED BACK, SOME OF THE GROUPS
ON OPPOSITE SIDES WEIGHED IN.
SO THE REPUBLICANS-JEWISH
COALITION THREATENING TO SPEND
MONEY TO UNDERCUT MEMBERS WHO
DON'T SHOW UP FOR THE STREET.
THE LIBERAL J STREET GROUP HAS
COME OUT TO RAISE MONEY TO
PROTECT THESE.
FOX AND THE ANTI-DEFAMATION
LEAGUE CALLED FOR NETANYAHU TO
CANCEL THE SPEECH.
I THINK THEY'RE TRYING TO PAPER
IT OVER BUT IT HAS MADE MANY
DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS
UNCERTAIN AND UNHAPPY THAT IT'S
INJECT AGO PARTISAN RIFT THAT
WOULD UNDERCUT SUPPORT FOR
ISRAEL.
>> Woodruff: EVERY WHICH WAY
YOU LOOK IT'S COMPLICATED.
>> Reporter: VERY.
>> Woodruff: MARGARET WARNER,
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: WHEN IT COMES TO
THE BATTLE AGAINST THE ISLAMIC
STATE, MUCH OF THE WORLD'S
ATTENTION IS FOCUSED OF COURSE
ON THE MURDERS AND MAYHEM IT HAS
WROUGHT.
BUT THERE HAVE BEEN A SERIES OF
ATTACKS ON ANTIQUITIES AND
CULTURAL HERITAGE.
AND TODAY, THERE'S BOTH
CONDEMNATION AND SADNESS OVER
THE DESTRUCTION AND LOSS OF ART
AND HISTORY IN NORTHERN IRAQ.
HERE'S JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Brown: IN THE VIDEO, ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANTS KNOCK STATUES TO
THE FLOOR.
TAKE SLEDGEHAMMERS TO CENTURIES-
OLD ARTIFACTS, EVEN EMPLOY A
JACKHAMMER TO REDUCE A WORK TO
RUBBLE.
RELEASED THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA
THURSDAY, THE FIVE-MINUTE VIDEO
USES MUSIC AND SLOW MOTION TO
DRAMATIZE WHAT APPEARS TO BE THE
DESTRUCTION AT NORTHERN IRAQ'S
MOSUL MUSEUM.
>> ( translated ): TO ALL
MUSLIMS, THESE STATUES ARE IDOLS
OF THE PEOPLE IN PREVIOUS
CENTURIES, WHICH WERE WORSHIPPED
OTHER THAN GOD.
GOD ALMIGHTY SAYS: AND WE SENT A
MESSENGER TO YOU JUST TO REVEAL
THAT NO GOD BUT I, SO WORSHIP
ME.
THE PROPHET ORDERED US TO GET
RID OF STATUES AND RELICS, AND
HIS COMPANIONS DID THE SAME WHEN
THEY CONQUERED COUNTRIES AFTER
HIM.
>> Brown: THE MOSUL MUSEUM
REPORTEDLY HOUSED MORE THAN 170
GENUINE ANTIQUITIES.
OTHERS WERE REPLICAS, AND IT'S
UNCLEAR HOW MANY ORIGINAL WORKS
WERE DESTROYED.
BUT THE ACT FITS INTO A BROADER
CAMPAIGN BY THE ISLAMIC STATE,
TO BRAZENLY AND PUBLICLY DESTROY
CULTURAL RELICS IN THE NAME OF
RELIGIOUS PURITY.
SINCE ITS INCURSION INTO
NORTHERN IRAQ LAST SUMMER, THE
GROUP HAS LAID WASTE TO
LIBRARIES, TEMPLES AND SHRINES.
AND THE REGION NOW UNDER ITS
CONTROL CONTAINS NEARLY 1,800 OF
IRAQ'S 12,000 REGISTERED
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES.
IN PARIS TODAY, UNESCO DIRECTOR-
GENERAL IRINA BOKOVA CALLED THIS
NEWEST ACT IN MOSUL A "WAR
CRIME" THAT THE WORLD MUST
PUNISH.
BUT, SHE SAID:
>> I KNOW THAT THERE IS NOT MUCH
THAT WE CAN DO IN ORDER TO GO
THERE ON THE SITE.
UNESCO DOESN'T HAVE AN ARMY,
UNESCO DOESN'T HAVE BLUE HELMETS
OR ANYTHING ELSE.
>> Brown: MEANWHILE IN WAR-TORN
SYRIA, SATELLITE IMAGES SHOW
EXTENSIVE LOOTING OF
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES, FOR RELICS
REPORTEDLY SOLD OTHE N BLACK
MARKET TO FINANCE ISLAMIC STATE
OPERATIONS.
TODAY UNESCO ANNOUNCED THE
CREATION OF A GLOBAL COALITION
AGAINST THE TRAFFICKING OF
ILLEGAL OBJECTS, TO MEET IN THE
COMING WEEKS.
WE TURN TO: BARNARD HAYKEL, A
PROFESSOR OF NEAR EAST STUDIES
AT PRINCETON UNIVERSITY
AND MICHAEL DANTI, A PROFESSOR
OF ARCHAEOLOGY AT BOSTON
UNIVERSITY WHO SPECIALIZES IN
THIS REGION.
LET ME START WITH YOU, MICHAEL
DANTI.
I KNOW EX PIEFORTS HAVE BEEN
LOOKING -- EXPERTS HAVE BEEN
LOOKING AT THE VIDEO TO
AUTHENTICATE THE MUSEUM, TO TRY
TO DETERMINE THE EXTENT OF THE
DAMAGE.
WHAT DO WE KNOW SO FAR?
>> WE KNOW SOME OF THE OBJECTS
WE ARE SEEING ARE PLASTER CASTS
OR RESTORATIONS, BUT THE
MAJORITY OF WHAT WE'RE LOOKING
AT BOTH AT THE SITE OF NINEVEH
AND THE MOSUL MUSEUM IS
SCULPTURE OF ANTIQUITY.
WE'RE SEEING MATERIAL FROM THE
ANCIENT CITY OF HADR AND FROM
NINEVEH FROM THE FIRST
MILLENNIUM B.C.
>> Brown: PUT CONTEXT TO THESE
WORKS.
>> THE MATERIAL FROM HATRA IS
REALLY UNPARALLELED IN ART
HISTORY.
THERE'S VERY LITTLE MATERIAL
OUTSIDE THE MOSUL MUSEUM.
IN TERMS OF THE SCULPTURE WE SEE
FROM THE ASYRIAN EMPIRE, A LARGE
AMOUNT OF THAT MATERIAL GRACES
THE BRITISH MUSEUM, THE
METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ALTER AND
THE LOUVRE.
BUT THE WORKS WE'RE SEEING THAT
REMAINED IN MOSUL WERE THE HARD
WORK OF IRAQI ARCHEOLOGISTS AND
MUSEUM PROFESSIONALS.
>> Brown: BERNARD HAYKEL WHY
THE FOCUS ON ART AND ANTIQUITIES
AND WHO'S THE INTENDED AUDIENCE?
>> THE ISLAMIC STATE PRESENTS
ITSELF AS A PURITANICAL MOVEMENT
CLAIMING TO BE THE AUTHENTIC
VERSION OF ISLAM AND PART OF
THEIR PRESENTATION OF THE
VERSION OF ISLAM HAS TO DO WITH
THE SMASHING OF IDOLS, WHAT WE
CALL ICONICKISM, AND IT'S A
MAJOR P.R. CAMPAIGN TO PRESENT
THEMSELVES AS THE REAL MUSLIMS.
IT SHOULD BE UNDERSCORED THAT
MOST MUSLIMS DON'T SHARE THEIR
VIEWS AT ALL AND, IN FACT, YOU
KNOW, ISLAMIC HAR ART HAS HAD AT
OF REPRESENTATION EVEN OF THE
PROPHET, BUT THEIR VERSION OF
ISLAM IS VERY LITERAL AND IT'S
VERY RADICAL AND THEY ARE TRYING
TO PRESENT THAT AS THE REAL
THING.
>> Brown: THE PACKAGING OF THE
VIDEO YOU'RE PUTTING IN THE
CATEGORY OF PUBLIC RELATIONS, OF
REACHING OUT AND SAYING HERE'S
WHAT WE CAN DO?
>> YEAH, AND IT'S PROPAGANDA.
IT'S TRYING TO APPEAL TO MUCH OF
WHAT THEY DO IS TRYING TO APPEAL
TO YOUNG PEOPLE TO BRING ABOUT
RECRUITS AND SAYING THAT WE ADD
HERE VERY CLOSELY TO THE
INJUNCTIONINJUNCTIONS OF ISLAMIE
OF WHICH IS TO COMMAND GOOD AND
FORBID WRONG, AND THESE STATUES
ARE CONSIDERED IDOLS.
OF COURSE, ISLAMIC LAW SAYS
IDOLS THAT ARE NOT WORSHIPED
NEED NOT BE DESTROYED, AND NONE
OF THESE WERE WORSHIPED, SO IT
IS A GRATUITOUS AND BARBARIC
ACT, FRANKLY, BUT ONE INTENDED
TO APPEAL TO AN AUDIENCE LOOKING
FOR SOME SORT OF AUTHENTICITY.
>> Brown: MICHAEL DANTI,
YOU'RE NODDING YOUR HEAD.
YOU HAVE BEEN WATCHING THIS
UNFOLD AT A NUMBER OF SITES IN
SYRIA AND IRAQ.
ARE THERE FEARS ABOUT MORE?
WHAT STEPS ARE OR CAN BE TAKEN
AT THIS POINT?
>> DURING THE CONFLICT,
OBVIOUSLY THERE'S VERY LITTLE
THAT WE CAN DO.
TO PRY TO PREVENT THESE THINGS,
YOU NEED TO TAKE MEASURERS
TOWARD THE OUTBREAK OF
CONFLICTS.
SINCE JULY WE'VE SEEN SCORES OF
THESE SORTS OF DESTRUCTIONS.
THE MAIN TARGETS SHIA AND SUFI
SITES.
>> Brown: SO THERE ARE
PATTERNS YOU SEE?
>> YEAH, THERE'S DEFINITELY A
PATTERN TO TARGET SHIA AND SUFI
MATERIAL CULTURE, PRIMARILY
SILENCE, MOSQUES AND TOOMBS.
THE HARDEST HIT IS THE ALEPPO
GOVERNMENT IN NORTHERN SYRIA AND
THIS IS A WAY TO INCREASE SYRIAN
TENSIONS AND PROLIFERATE THE
CONFLICT, ALSO IS A COLD,
CALCULATED FORM OF PSYCHOLOGICAL
WARFARE.
>> Brown: BERNARD HAYKEL, THIS
GETS THE WORLD'S ATTENTION.
HERE WE ARE TALKING ABOUT IT,
THOUGH WE FELT WE HAD TO.
THERE'S NO WAY NOT TO.
DOES THAT PROLIFERATE?
DO YOU EXPECT MORE TO HAPPEN?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I MEAN, I THINK THIS IS A GROUP
THAT IS DETERMINED TO ATTRACT AS
MUCH MEDIA ATTENTION AS POSSIBLE
AND TO SHOCK AND TO -- BECAUSE
THEY SEE THIS AS A FORM OF
HUMILIATING THE ENEMY, BEING ALL
PEOPLE THEY DISAGREE WITH BUT
MAINLY UNBELIEVERS.
AND SHIA AND SUFIS AND MUSLIMS
THAT DISAGREE WITH THEM ARE
CONSIDERED UNBELIEVERS AND THEY
ARE OBJECTS OF THE SHOCK VALUE.
>> Brown: ON THE LOOTING THAT
CONTINUES, REPORTS ABOUT THE
SALE OF THE ANTIQUITIES TO
FINANCE SOME OF THESE
OPERATIONS, DO WE KNOW MUCH
ABOUT THAT AT THIS POINT?
>> WE KNOW THE MATERIAL IS
MAKING IT TO LEBANON AND TURKEY
ON ITS WAY TO INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS.
WHAT'S DIFFICULT TO FILL IN ARE
THE DOLLAR VALUES AND THE EXACT
BELLIGERENCE AND CONFLICT
INVOLVED IN THE LOOTING AND
TRAFFICKING.
BUT WE HAVE GOOD INFORMATION
THAT ALMOST EVERYONE IN THE
SYRIA-IRAQ CONFLICT IS LOOTING.
>> Brown: MICHAEL DANTI,
BERNARD HAYKEL, THANK YOU BOTH
VERY MUCH.
>> THANYOU.K
>> Woodruff: TWO MAJOR TRENDS
ARE ON A COLLISION COURSE IN THE
UNITED STATES: THE AGING OF THE
U.S. POPULATION AND A DECADES-
LONG SURGE IN OBESITY.
THE ELDERLY POPULATION IS
PROJECTED TO DOUBLE TO 80
MILLION BY 2050.
AND AS THAT'S HAPPENING, OBESE
INDIVIDUALS ARE FAR MORE LIKELY
TO BECOME SICK OR DISABLED AS
THEY AGE.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT SARAH
VARNEY HAS THE STORY FROM
ALABAMA, PRODUCED IN
COLLABORATION WITH OUR PARTNERS
AT KAISER HEALTH NEWS.
>> Reporter: THIS IS CALLED
THE SEAFOOD CAPITAL OF ALABAMA.
RESIDENTS DEPEND ON SHRINKING
AND FISHING FOR THEIR LIVELIHOOD
AND WHEN THEY EAT, THEY LIKE
MOST THINGS FRIED.
DR. BENJAMIN HAS BEEN TRYING TO
REVERSE THE NATION'S OBESITY
EPIDEMIC ONE PATIENT AT A TIME.
>> BAKE, BOIL, AND BROIL.
SAY IT AGAIN.
>> REPEAT.
SO NO MORE FRIED.
THIS WOMAN IS 69 YEARS OLD
AND A RETIRED CRAB PICKER.
SHE SPENT MOST OF HER LIFE
SERIOUSLY OVERWEIGHT AND
DIAGNOSED WITH DIABETES AGE 39.
AS OBESITY BECAME COMMONPLACE
AROUND THE U.S., HEALTHCARE
PROVIDERS LIKE BENJAMIN BEGAN
SEEING THE IMPACTS OF THE
DISEASE AROUND THEM.
>> IF YOU SAW A PATIENT
POPULATION GET HEAVIER, WE SAW
CHRONIC DISEASES RISE --
HYPERTENSION, STROKES, DIABETES.
WE'RE NOW CALLED THE STROKE BELT
WHERE WE ARE.
SO WE SAW ALL THOSE THINGS START
HAPPENING AND IF WE CONTINUED,
OUR ENTIRE COMMUNITY WOULD
TOTALLY BE CRIPPLED, BASICALLY,
BASED ON CHRONIC DISEASES AND
CHRONIC ILLNESSES.
>> THAT ASSESSMENT STRETCHES
BEYOND THE BAYOU.
AWE LONG THE GULF COAST AND THE
SOUTH, ONE IN THREE ADULTS IS
OBESE AND MANY LIVED WHO LIVED
FOR DECADES WITH DIABETES, HEART
DISEASE AND OBESITY ARE IN THEIR
SENIOR YEARS.
THE OBESITY RATE GREW FROM 10 TO
15% TO MORE THAN 30%, HAVING
PROFOUND EFFECTS AS THE COUNTRY
AGES.
DR. VIRGINIA CHANG, A
DEMOGRAPHER AT NEW YORK
UNIVERSITY SAYS LIFE-LONGO
OBESITY NOW COMMON IN THE U.S.
IS POISED TO UNDERMINE
IMPROVEMENTS IN DISABILITY RATES
AMONG OLDER ADULTS.
>> WE'RE POTENTIALLY GOING TO
HAVE A LARGER OLDER POPULATION
THAT'S MORE LIKELY TO BE OBESE,
SURVIVING LONGER WITH
CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE AND OTHER
CHRONIC CONDITIONS.
I THINK THE PRIMARY FALLOUT FROM
INCREASING OBESITY IS PROBABLY
NOT GOING TO BE SOME HUGE HIT TO
MORTALITY, IT'S GOING TO BE
DISABILITY.
>> AT THE UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA
AT BIRMINGHAM, BIOLOGY PROFESSOR
STEPHEN ALSTED IS STUDYING DIET
AND NUTRITION ON MICE.
>> AGING WAS THOUGHT TO BE ALL
THESE DIFFERENT PROCESSES, YOUR
HEART AGE, BRAIN AGED, FEET
AGED.
NOW WHAT WE'VE REALIZED IS THERE
ARE A HANDFUL OF PROCESSES
INVOLVED IN AGING ALL PARTS OF
YOUR BODY AND TURNS OUT ONE OF
THE PROCESSES IS INFLAMMATION.
>> INFLAMMATION INCREASES AS WE
AGE, BUT IS EXACERBATED BY BELLY
FAT WHICH SECRETES CHEMICALS
THAT CAUSE FURTHER INFLAMMATION
AROUND THE BODY.
>> IF YOU'RE OBESE, YOUR
SYSTEMWIDE LEVELS OF
INFLAMMATION ARE HIGHER,
PARTICULARLY WHEN YOU'RE OLDER.
>> MY MOTHER HAD VASCULAR
DEMENTIA.
>> ONE REASON SCIENTISTS THINK
MEN AND WOMEN WHO ARE OBESE ARE
MORE LIKELY TO DEVELOP DEMENTIA,
ALZHEIMER'S AND CERTAIN CANCERS
AS THEY AGE.
BHAJ RESIDENT BOB PARKER SAYS
HIS OWN WEIGHT IS STARTING TO
CATCH UP WITH HIM.
AS A REALTOR AND DEMOCRATIC
PARTY ACTIVIST, HE OFTEN ATTENDS
MEETINGS AT RESTAURANTS.
HE SAYS ALL THE NIGHTS LINING
OUT MAKE IT HARD TO EAT WELL.
AT AGE 60, HE'S TREATED FOR
DIABETES, HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE,
HIGH CHOLESTEROL AND SLEEP
APNEA.
HE'S LOST MUCH WEIGHT AND GAINED
IT BACK.
>> I GET TIRED.
WHEN I DO PROJECTS AROUND THE
HOUSE, I CAN'T DO THEM AS LONG
AND I FIND MYSELF RESTING MORE
WHEN I AM DOING IT.
I LIKE TO DO THINGS OUT IN THE
YARD AND HAVE A COUPLE OF
VARIOUS LITTLE PROJECTS GOING ON
THAT HAVE STOPPED FOR THE
WINTER.
AND I CAN'T -- I JUST CAN'T WORK
ON THEM AS MUCH.
SO THAT'S PRETTY GALLING, TO BE
HONEST.
>> TO GET HELP H HE COMES TO THE
UNIVERSITY'S WEIGHT LOSS CLINIC
TO SEE DR. SOLAMANI.
>> TELL ME WHAT'S CHALLENGING TO
YOU TO ADHERE TO THE DIET PLAN.
>> THE CHOICES ARE THINGS I
DON'T LIKE.
>> OBESITY IS AN EXPENSIVE
DISEASES SPECIAL FOR AGING
SENIORS.
ONE STUDY FOUND WHILE OBESE
70-YEAR-OLDS LIVE AS LONG AS
NON-BEES, THEY SPEND MORE ON
HEALTHCARE.
>> OBESE PEOPLE HAVE MORE
HEALTHCARE COSTS.
>> THE UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA
RESEARCH CENTER AT BIRMINGHAM.
>> AS ONE GETS INTO THE AGE
WHERE HEALTHCARE SPENDING GOES
UP, 25-YEAR-OLDS DON'T SPEND
THAT MUCH ON HEALTHCARE, BUT AS
YOU PROGRESS THROUGH AGE, THAT
DIFFERENCE IS GOING TO BE BIGGER
AND BIGGER AND MORE AND MORE
IMPORTANT.
>> TWO HOURS FROM BIRMINGHAM IN
THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE
STATE, GENERATIONS OF RED BAY
ONE OF THE ONLY NURSING HOMES IN
THE REGION WILLING TO TAKEN TO
THE ADDED EXPENSE OF CARING FOR
HEAVIER PATIENTS WHO COME FROM
AS FAR AWAY AS TEXAS.
MORE OBESE PEOPLE ARE HEADING
INTO NURSING HOMES AT YOUNGER
AGES AND STAYING LONG THAN
NOOBESNE RESIDENTS.
>> ARE YOU FEELING OKAY.
YEAH, I'M FINE.
MARGARET HILL DOUGLAS ARRIVED
TWO YEARS AGO AT AGE 47 AFTER
SHE BROKE HER KNEE.
SURGERY WAS CONSIDERED TOO RISKY
BECAUSE OF CONGESTIVE HEART
FAILURE SO SHE LANGUISHED IN THE
HOSPITAL FOR WEEKS WHILE A
SOCIAL WORKER LOOKED FOR A
NURSING HOME TO ACCEPT HER.
THESE PATIENTS REQUIRE
ADDITIONAL STAFF AND COSTLY
EQUIPMENT SAWS ANDREA FULL
INTEREST NURSING HOME'S CHIEF
OPERATING OFFICER, THAT INCLUDES
EVERYTHING FROM SPECIALIZED BEDS
AND LIFTS TO LARGER BLOOD
PRESSURE CUFFS.
>> THERE ARE TWO CERTIFIED
NURSING ASSISTANTS FOR EIGHT TO
TEN RESIDENTS AND THAT'S ABOUT
TWICE THE STAFFING YOU WOULD
HAVE FOR THE GENERAL POPULATION
OF A SKILLED NURSING FACILITY.
>> Reporte FUr:LLER SAYS MOST
TO HAVE THE PEOPLE WHO MOVE IN
EVEN THE YOUNGER ONES WILL NEED
THIS TYPE OF CARE FOR THE REST
OF THEIR LIVES.
AT THE WEIGHT LOSS CLINIC IN
BIRMINGHAM, BERNARD RAYFORD, AGE
5 5RBGS SAYS HE WANTS TO AVOID
THAT FATE.
>> I ALWAYS PRAYED, LORD, BEFORE
I BE A BURDEN, JUST TAKE ME.
I SSOAW HISELF BEING A BURDEN
AND ME BEING A MAJOR PROBLEM, SO
THE END WAS FOR ME NOT TO MAKE
IT, OR END UP BEING AN INVALID
AND THAT'S A DIRECTION I DON'T
WANT TO BE IN.
>> Reporter: RAYFORD IS
WORKING HARD ON HIS DIET AND IN
THE CLINIC'S GYM.
HE SAYS THERE IS MUCH AT STAKE.
HE WANTS TO ENJOY RETIREMENT
WITH HIS WIFE AND YEARS WITH HIS
GRANDSON.
I'M SARAH VARNEY IN BIRMINGHAM,
ALABAMA.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, THE FIGHT TO
WIN OVER THE RIGHT.
IT WAS DAY TWO OF SPEECHES AT
THE LARGEST GATHERING OF
CONSERVATIVES IN THE COUNTRY.
POLITICAL DIRECTOR DOMENICO
MONTANARO REPORTS ON THE
CONSERVATIVE POLITICAL ACTION
CONFERENCE OR CPAC.
>> Reporter: JEB BUSH, THE
FORMER FLORIDA GOVERNOR AND
CURRENT FRONT RUNNER FOR THE
REPUBLICAN NOMINATION IN 2016,
WAS THE HIGHLIGHT OF THE DAY.
>> I HAVE TO SHOW THAT I CARE
ABOUT PEOPLE AND THEIR FUTURE.
IT CAN'T BE ABOUT THE PAST, IT
CAN'T BE ABOUT MY MOM AND DAD
AND BROTHER.
>> Reporter: HE WAS MET WITH
SOME BOOS FOR HIS SUPPORT OF
IMMIGRATION REFORM AND COMMON
CORE EDUCATIONAL STANDARDS,
BUT HE DEFENDED HIS RECORD.
>> I WOULD DESCRIBE MYSELF AS A
PRACTICING REFORM MINDED
CONSERVATIVE, THAT I'VE ACTUALLY
DONE IT.
>> Reporter: ANOTHER FLORIDIAN,
SENATOR MARCO RUBIO, STRUCK OUT
AT PRESIDENT OBAMA.
>> SOMETIMES YOU WOULDN'T KNOW
WE'RE AN EXCEPTIONAL NATION BY
LISTENING TO THE PRESIDENT WHO
HAS DESCRIBED OUR NATION AS
SOMETIMES BEING ARROGANT OR
DICTATING TERMS TO OTHERS.
>> Reporter: KENTUCKY SENATOR
RAND PAUL'S MESSAGE OF SMALLER-
GOVERNMENT AND A LESS-
INTERVENTIONIST FOREIGN POLICY
IS ALWAYS POPULAR WITH SOME OF
THE YOUNGER, LIBERTARIAN
ACTIVISTS AT CPAC.
AND THIS YEAR WAS NO DIFFERENT.
>> AS CONSERVATIVES WE SHOULD
NOT SUCCUMB TO THE NOTION THAT A
GOVERNMENT INEPT AT HOME WILL
SOMEHOW BECOME SUCCESSFUL
ABROAD.
>> Reporter: BUT FORMER SENATOR
RICK SANTORUM, LIKE MOST OTHER
SPEAKERS, TOOK A HARD LINE ON
FIGHTING THE ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANT GROUP.
>> IF ISIS WANTS TO ESTABLISH A
SEVENTH CENTURY CALIPHATE WELL
LET'S OBLIGE THEM BY BOMBING
THEM BACK TO THE SEVENTH
CENTURY.
>> Reporter: THE ACTIVISTS WILL
VOTE ON THEIR FAVORITE TOMORROW
IN THE ANNUAL CPAC STRAW POLL.
DOMENICO MONTANARO, PBS NEWSHOUR
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS, THAT'S
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME, GENTLEMEN.
SO, MARK, C-PAC, THE REGULAR
GATHERING OF CONSERVATIVES.
WHAT SHOULD WE TAKE AWAY?
>> THERE'S A GENERATIONAL DIVIDE
IN THE ROOM WHICH RAND PAUL
REACHES ACROSS TO PARTICULARLY
YOUNGER VOTERS, BUT WHAT I
FOUND -- I THOUGHT JEB BUSH DID
A LOT IN QUESTION AND ANSWER
THAN IN A SET SPEECH LAST WEEK.
BUT, JUDY, WHAT'S COMING OUT OF
THAT ROOM -- AND BASICALLY THE
FIRST PRIMARY FOR REPUBLICANS --
IS EXACTLY THE KIND OF LANGUAGE
OF NO COMPROMISE.
COMPROMISE IS CAPITULATION,
COMPROMISE IS SURRENDER, AND
IT'S EXACTLY THE WRONG MESSAGE
THAT WAS GOING TO CAPITOL HILL
THIS WEEK WHERE REPUBLICANS
COLLAPSED IN HANDLING HOMELAND
SECURITY, AND I THINK THE
ATMOSPHERE CREATED BY THAT ROOM
AND THE PEOPLE THERE IS HARMFUL
TO THE PARTY.
IT COULD BE CRUCIAL TO THE
NOMINATING PROCESS, BUT IT'S AN
UNELECTABLE MESSAGE.
>> Woodruff: BUT ISN'T THAT
MESSAGE OF NO COOPERATION,
DAVID, THAT'S BEEN THE TRADEMARK
FOR THESE CONSERVATIVES.
>> THERE'S CONSERVATIVES, THEN
CONSERVATIVES, THEN
CONSERVATIVES AND ON THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE ROOM C-PAC.
SO YOU LOOK AT THE PEOPLE
THEY'VE NOMINATED OVER THE YEARS
AS THEIR FAVORITE SPEAKER, RON
PAUL, RAND PAUL'S FATHER, GARY
BOWER, CHRISTIAN CONSERVATIVE,
SO THIS HARD CORE.
MITT ROMNEY GOT IT BUT HE PACKED
THE HOUSE.
THEY ALL PACKED THE HOUSE.
(LAUGHTER)
JEB BUSH DID WELL.
IF HE STUMBLED, A LITTLE RHYTHM
GETS GOING THAT JEB BUSH CAN'T
CAMPAIGN WELL, AND HE DID WELL.
SCOTT WALKER SEEMS TO DO OKAY
WITH TEA PARTY AND ESTABLISHMENT
PARTY, SO THAT'S GOOD.
MARCO RUBIO, FINE, BUT I GUESS
WHAT WAS INTERESTING WAS THE
FOREIGN POLICY SPLIT.
AS WE JUST HEARD, THE HARD-CORE
INTERVENTIONALLISTS WERE
CHEERED.
RAND PAUL WAS CHEERED ON
EVERYTHING.
BUT I SUSPECT THE TWO MAIN
TRENDS, SO FAR WE SEE -- I'M
ABOUT TO LIST THREE -- ONE, A
PRETTY GOOD CANDIDATE, BETTER
THAN LAST TIME.
TWO, THE PARTY DOESN'T KNOW
WHERE IT STANDS ON FOREIGN
POLICY, BUT A LITTLE MORE
INTERVENTIONALLIST THAN SEEMS.
AND THREE, THE SOCIAL ISSUES,
ABORTION LITTLE LESS EMPHASIZED
THAN IN YEARS PAST.
>> SO YOU'RE SAYING THIS IS A
NEW CONSERVATIVE, CONSERVATIVE
PIECE OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY?
>> LIKE EVERY PARTY, THE MOOD
SHIFTS, THE DEMOCRAT PARTY IS
SHIFTING TO THE ECONOMIC POP
LIST PARTY.
REPUBLICAN IS A LITTLE LESS TEA
PARTY AND CONSERVATIVE THAN TWO
YEARS AGO.
>> HE'S ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
HISTORICALLY, C-PAC WAS A
SPLINTERED GROUP -- THE YOUNG
AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM, THE
AMERICAN CONSERVATIVE UNION --
IT IS NOW A TRADE SHOW FOR ALL
REPUBLICANS.
YOU MISS THIS EVENT AND YOU DO
SO AT YOUR OWN PERIL.
CHRIS CHRISTIE WAS NOT INVITED
LAST YEAR.
HE WAS HAPPY TO BE THERE THIS
YEAR.
IT IS NOW APPROACHING IOWA AND
NEW HAMPSHIRE AS EVENTS THAT IF
YOU'RE A REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE,
YOU CAN'T AFFORD TO SKIP.
>> BUT THERE ARE MORE QUIETER
EVENTS ON WALL STREET WHERE THE
MESSAGE IS VERY DIFFERENT.
>> BUT THIS IS WHERE THE CAMERAS
ARE AND THE MESSAGE COMES AND IT
WAS HARMFUL ON CAPITOL HILL.
>> WHEN YOU STATE IT'S A PLACE
YOU HAVE TO BE, THE OTHER HAND
DAVID'S POINT IS THE WINNER
NEVER GOES ON TO BECOME
PRESIDENT.
>> THAT'S NOT ALWAYS TRUE.
ROMNEY IS ONE.
RAGAN SWEPT IT.
REAGAN MADE IT AN IMPORTANT
EVENT.
SINCE THEN, DAVID IS RIGHT, RON
PAUL DID WELL, THERE'S A
LIBERTARIAN STREAK AMONG THE
YOUNGER MEMBERS, TRADITIONALLY
THE YOUNG AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM.
>> JEB TALKED ABOUT THE D.H.S.
ISSUES AND SAID HE DISAGREED
WITH WHAT'S GOING ON ON CAPITOL
HILL WHICH IS A SHIFT TOWARD AIR
MAIN STREAM ESTABLISHMENT, LESS
CONFRONTATIONAL THING.
SO INTERESTING EVEN AT C-PAC HE
DID THE LESS CONFRONTATIONAL
POSTURE.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT YOU
RAISED, MARK.
THE REPUBLICANS HAVE BEEN SAYING
FOR WEEKS AND DAYS THEY ARE NOT
GOING TO FUND THE DEPARTMENT
OF HOMELAND SECURITY UNTIL THE
PRESIDENT BACKS DOWN ON
IMMIGRATION.
FINALLY CAME TO VOTE AND NOTHING
HAPPENED TODAY.
I MEAN, WHAT DO WE SEE?
>> SOMETHING HAPPENED PRETTY
SERIOUSLY, JUDY.
IT IS THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE.
>> NO VOTE TOO SPUN --
, BUT A MAJOR DEFEAT FOR
THE REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP IN THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THEY HAD A THREE-WEEK EXTENSION,
THREE WEEKS INTO MARCH, AND THEY
COULDN'T -- THEY LOST 51 NUMBERS
OF THEIR OWN CAUCUS AND WITH THE
SPEAKER HIMSELF WHICH IS RARELY
DONE GOING DOWN AND CASTING A
VOTE OFF OF THE LOSING SIDE TO
PASS A THREE-WEEK EXTENSION, SO
REJECTED A THREE-WEEK EXTENSION,
SO NOW WITH THE SENATE HAVING A
68-31 MARGIN, NO ENTANGLING
AMENDMENTS, JUST A HOMELAND
SECURITY FUNDING TO THE END OF
THE FISCAL YEAR, THE 31 SENATORS
WHO VOTED AGAINST IT WERE ALL
REPUBLICANS.
SO A MAJORITY OF REPUBLICANS
VOTED AGAINST IT, BUT LEADER
MCCONNELL IS SO SECURE IN HIS
OWN LEADERSHIP THAT HE COULD
PASS IT AND NOT WORRY ABOUT ANY
KIND OF A ROTE.
WHAT JOHN BOEHNER HAS IS A 57
MARGIN IN THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES.
WHEY'S GOT THE BIGGEST MARGIN OF
REPUBLICANS SINCE 1928 YET HIS
SPEAKERSHIP IS SO SHAKY THAT HE
REALLY IS LOOKING OVER HIS
SHOULDER EVERY MINUTE.
HAD 25 MEMBERS OF HIS OWN CAUCUS
VOTE AGAINST HIM WHEN ELECTED IN
JANUARY AND 50 TOOK A WALK ON
HIM TODAY.
IT'S JUST A TERRIBLE POSITION TO
BE IN.
SHAKY?
>> IT LOOKS LIKE THE GREAT
RETREAT, LIKE NAPOLEON COMING
BACK FROM RUSSIAN -- BEDRAGGLED,
PEOPLE SPLIT.
IT'S A FAILURE OF VISION.
THIS WAS A DAY THAT WAS
PREORDAINED WEEKS AGO WHEN THEY
DECIDED TO TAKE UP THIS ISSUE
WHICH WAS GOING TO WITH A
FAILURE ANYWAY AND SECOND IT WAS
A POLITICAL FAILURE.
YOU ASK PEOPLE AROUND THE
COUNTRY, DO YOU APPROVE THE
IMMIGRAON?TI
DOESN'T MATTER.
THEY DON'T LIKE THE IDEA OF
SHUTTING DOWN GOVERNMENT BECAUSE
IT BRINGS BACK TO MIND THE
DYSFUNCTION, GETS YOU LOST IN
THE LEGISLATIVE MORES THAT MIKE
DESCRIBED.
WHY THEY DO NOT FORESEE THIS IS
A MYSTERY TO PROFESSIONALS.
>> Woodruff: AS WE WERE
TALKING EARLY FRIDAY, WHAT
HAPPENS?
WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE?
>> KEVIN McCARTHY, REPUBLICAN
HOUSE WHIP TOLD THE MEMBERSHIP
AFTER THE VOTE TO STAY IN TOWN.
COULD BE VOTES TONIGHT AND ALL
WEEKEND.
WE KNOW THAT THE FUNDING ENDS.
GOING TO ASK PEOPLE TO WORK
WITHOUT BEING PAID.
IT'S ALMOST AS THOUGH THEY'RE
OUT OF TOUCH.
THEY DON'T UNDERSTANDHAT T THERE
ARE MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF
AMERICAN FAMILIES WHO LIVE
PAYCHECK TO PAYCHECK WHO WORRY
ABOUT CAR NOTES AND CHILDREN'S
TUITION BILLS AND THEY ARE
EXPECTED TO WORK FOR NOTHING?
>> Woodruff: NOW, THERE IS
SOME POINT BEING MADE THAT THE
DEMOCRATS COULD HAVE PUSHED THIS
OVER THE TOP.
THE PRESIDENT SAID HE WOULD SIGN
A SHORT-TERM FUNDING, A
THREE-WEEK FUNDING BILL, BUT
DEMOCRATS IN THE HOUSE DIDN'T GN
HAS BEEN THAT HE WOULD PASS A
MAJORITY OF THE MAJORITY, THAT
THEY COULD PASS IT, AND YOU'RE
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT, I MEAN, THE
DEMOCRATS SAID WE WANT A VOTE ON
WHAT THE SENATE JUST PASSED,
WHICH WAS AN EXTENSION.
>> Woodruff: IS THIS THE END
OF THE NEW REPUBLICAN
LEADERSHIP, DAVID?
HOW BIG A BLOW IS THIS?
>> IT'S A BAD CHILDHOOD.
YOU KNOW, IT'S A BLOW.
YOU KNOW, THEY'LL COME BACK.
THERE ARE OTHER ISSUES.
PRESUMABLY THEY WILL GET TO THE
ISSUES FACING THE THE COUNTRY
MAYBE AT SOME POINT.
THE ECONOMY, IRAN IS GOING TO BE
ON US NEXT WEEK, SO BIG THINGS
WILL BE HAPPENING, BUT IT'S JUST
BEEN WEIRDLY UNDERMINED.
>> SPEAKING OF IRAN, THE PRIME
MINISTER OF ISRAEL.
WE HEARD MARGARET WARNER'S
REPORT A FEW MINUTES AGO, COMING
TO WASHINGTON, COMING TO SPEAK
TO THE CONGRESS TUESDAY AT THE
REQUEST OF THE MAN YOU'VE BOTH
BEEN TALKING ABOUT, SPEAKER
BOEHNER.
MARGARET TALKED ABOUT ALL THE
SPLITS THAT HAPPENED IN THE
AMERICAN JEWISH COMMUNITY
BETWEEN THE ADMINISTRATION AND
ISRAEL.
HOW BIG A DIVISION IS THERE NOW
BETWEEN THIS ADMINISTRATION AND
ISRAEL?
HOW DOES IT COMPARE WITH
PREVIOUS SPLITS?
BECAUSE WE'VE SEEN TENSION IN
THE PAST BETWEEN THE AMERICANS
AND THE ISRAELIS.
>> THE MOST RECENTLY AND
PROBABLY MEMORIABLY WAS 1991,
JIM BAKER WAS SECRETARY OF STATE
AND GEORGE H.W. BUSH AND THE
FREEZE ON THE SETTLEMENTS AND
THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION HELD
BACK $10 MILLION IN GUARANTEED
LOANS AND AID TO THE ISRAELIS.
BUT THIS IS BIG, JUDE  Y.
SINCE THE FOUNDING OF THE STATE
OF ISRAEL IN 1948, THE STATE HAD
BEEN BIPARTISAN.
I THINK THIS WAS A POLITICAL
MOVE MADE BY BOTH THE PRIME
MINISTER OF ISRAEL AND HIS
SUPPORTERS AND THE SPEAKER OF
THE HOUSE.
THE PRIME MINISTER WAS PRETTY
OPEN IN HIS SUPPORT AND
ENDORSEMENT OF MITT ROMNEY
AGAINST PRESIDENT OBAMA.
COULD BE ACCUSED OF HAVING
MEDDLED IN OUR ELECTION, AND NOW
ON THE THIRD OF MARCH THE
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
WILL BE USED AS A PHOTO
OPPORTUNITY FOR A CAMPAIGN STOP
FOR PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU WHO
FACES THE VOTERS ON THE 17t
17th OF MARCH AND HAS SOME
PROBLEMS, BASICALLY DOMESTIC AND
DOING WHAT EVERYBODY DOES WHEN
THEY'RE IN TROUBLE, YOU MAKE ATE
MATTER OF NATIONAL SECURITY.
I'M NOT QUESTIONING THERE IS
NATIONAL SECURITY INVOLVED, BUT
THAT'S WHAT THIS IS.
IT WAS A DUMB POLITICAL MOVE TO
BEGIN WITH AND BACKFIRED ON I
THINK BOTH NETANYAHU AND
BOEHNER.
>> Woodruff: YOUR SON SERVES
IN THE ISRAELI ARMY?
>> RIGHT.
I AGREE IT'S A POLITICAL AND
SUBSTANTIVE DISASTER FOR THE
STATE OF ISRAEL AND BACK HOME
BECAUSE MOST ISRAELIS ARE
WORRIED ABOUT THE STATE OF THE
RELATIONSHIP.
IT'S DIFFERENT THAN THE PASTIMES
IN PART BECAUSE AS MARK SAID
IT'S PARTISAN NOW.
SUDDENLY REPUBLICANS ESPECIALLY
ON COLLEGE CAMPUSES IS MORE
FRAGILE THAN BEFORE.
THE IRAN SITUATION IS
GIGANTICALLY BIG ISSUE,
EXISTENTIAL FOR ISRAEL AND
SERIOUS FOR THE UNITED STATES
AND TO MESS THIS UP AT A TIME
WHEN THIS ISSUE LOOMING IS
CATACLYSMIC, DISTRACTING THE
DEBATE OVER WHAT'S BEING SETTLED
BETWEEN THE U.S. AND IRAN INTO
SOME SIDESHOW AND I HAPPEN TO
THINK NETANYAHU'S CONCERNS ABOUT
THE DEAL WE'RE APPARENTLY
GETTING CLOSE TO WITH THE
IRANIANS ARE LEGITIMATE BUT HE
DISTRACTED THAT INTO SOMETHING
DESTRUCTIVE.
>> DO YOU THINK IT MAKES IT
HARDER TO GET A DEAL?
COMPLICATES IT?
>> I THINK SO.
I THINK THE DEAL IS DANGEROUS
BECAUSE WE'RE GRANTING A VERY
ROGUE REGIME ACCESS TO AT LEAST
A NUCLEAR CAPABILITY WHICH I
THINK IS A VERY PERILOUS THING
TO DO.
BUT WE'RE NOT HAVING THAT
DEBATE.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT WHEN BIBI'S
COMING.
>> Woodruff: WE LEAVE IT
THERE.
DAVID BROOKS, MARK SHIELDS, WE
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> Woodruff: AND A CORRECTION:
IN THE NEWS SUMMARY, WE
HAD THE WRONG FIRST NAME AND
STATE FOR REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN
HAL ROGERS OF KTUCKENY.
WE REGRET THE ERROR.
AGAIN, THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS
OF THE DAY.
WITH A DEADLINE LOOMING, HOUSE
REPUBLICANS FAILED TO APPROVE
FUNDING FOR THE HOMELAND
SECURITY DEPARTMENT.
AND LEONARD NIMOY, "STAR TREK'S"
"MISTER SPOCK," AND FORMER NREOT
DAME PRESIDENT, THE REVEREND
THEODORE HESBURGH PASSED AWAY.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE, THE
DRESS.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE TALKING
ABOUT IT, BUT NOT ALL CAN AGREE.
IS IT GOLD AND WHITE OR BLACK
AND BLUE?
WE LOOK AT THE SCIENCE BEHIND
WHAT MAKES PEOPLE SEE THIS
IMAGE.
ORIGINALLY POSTED ONLINE BY A
21-YEAR-OLD SINGER NAMED CAITLIN
MCNEILL, SO DIFFERENTLY.
READ WHY ON OUR HOME PAGE,
pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: SOMETIMES THE WORLD
NEEDS A LITTLE EXTRA
EXPLANATION.
FROM THE ESCALATING AND
COMPLICATED WAR ON ISIS, TO THE
ESCALATING AND COMPLICATED 2016
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN, TO THE
ESCALATING AND COMPLICATED
STANDOFF OVER FUNDING THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.
WE'LL TACKLE IT ALL TONIGHT, ON
WASHINGTON WEEK.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SATURDAY, SHOULD PARENTS
BE CONCERNED ABOUT THE RISK OF
CONCUSSIONS FOR THEIR CHILDREN
WHO PLAY SOCCER?
>> WE DON'T NEED TO HAVE HEADING
IN YOUTH SOCCER, 14 AND UNDER.
>> Reporter: THE INTERESTING
THING IS JUST A FEW YEARS AGO
CHASTAIN WAS ON NBC SAYING THAT
HEADING WAS SAFE FOR KIDS, AS
LONG AS THEY WERE TRAINED
CORRECTLY.
>> IT'S A PART OF THE GAME, IT'S
AN IMPORTANT PART, AND IT'S A
BEAUTIFUL PART OF THE GAME.
>> Reporter: AT THE TIME, YOU
WERE SAYING, "I THINK THAT IT
CAN BE TAUGHT TO KIDS, AND IT
SHOULD STAY IN THE GAME FOR
KIDS."
NOW YOU THINK DIFFERENTLY.
I WONDER WHAT WAS IT IN
PARTICULAR THAT CHANGED YOUR
MIND?
>> THE MORE I STARTED HEARING
ABOUT IT, AND THE MORE RESEARCH
THAT HAS COME OUT, I JUST
THOUGHT, YOU KNOW, I HAVE TO
PROTECT THEM, AND THIS DOESN'T
NEED TO EXIST AT THIS YOUNG AGE.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S TOMORROW
NIGHT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
BEFORE WE GO WE WANT TO CLOSE
WITH A NEWSHOUR SHARES.
TWELVE YEARS AGO TODAY, FRED
ROGERS, THE MAN BEHIND "MISTER
ROGERS NEIGHBORHOOD," DIED.DED
RELEASED A MESSAGE HE RECORDED
JUST BEFORE HE PASSED AWAY FOR
ADULTS WHO GREW UP WATCHING HIM.
HERE'S PART OF WHAT HE HAD TO
SAY.
>> I'M JUST SO PROUD OF ALL OF
YOU WHO HAVE GROWN UP WITH US,
AND I KNOW HOW TOUGH IT IS SOME
DAYS TO LOOK WITH HOPE AND
CONFIDENCE ON THE MONTHS AND
YEARS AHEAD, BUT I WOULD LIKE TO
TELL YOU WHAT I OFTEN TOLD YOU
WHEN YOU WERE MUCH YOUNGER -- I
LIKE YOU JUST THE WAY YOU ARE,
AND WHAT'S MORE, I'M SO GRATEFUL
TO YOU FOR HELPING THE CHILDREN
IN YOUR LIFE TO KNOW THAT YOU
WIL DOL
KEEP THEM SAFE AND TO HELP THEM
EXPRESS THEIR FEELINGS IN WAYS
THAT WILL BRING HEALING IN MANY
DIFFERENT NEIGHBORHOODS.
IT'S SUCH A GOOD FEELING TO KNOW
THAT WE'RE LIFE-LONG FRIENDS.
>> Woodruff: THANK YOU, FRED
ROGERS.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, HAVE A GREAT
WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.